README.md, before:

# IPFS Web UI

> A web interface to [IPFS](https://ipfs.tech), shipped with [Kubo](https://github.com/ipfs/kubo), and [ipfs-desktop](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-desktop/).
>
> Check on your node stats, explore the IPLD powered merkle forest, see peers around the world and manage your files, without needing to touch the CLI.

![Screenshot of the status page](docs/screenshots/ipfs-webui-status.png)

| Files | Explore | Peers | Settings |
|-------|---------|-------|----------|
| ![Screenshot of the file browser page](docs/screenshots/ipfs-webui-files.png) | ![Screenshot of the IPLD explorer page](docs/screenshots/ipfs-webui-explore.png) | ![Screenshot of the swarm peers map](docs/screenshots/ipfs-webui-peers.png) | ![Screenshot of the settings page](docs/screenshots/ipfs-webui-settings.png) |

[![](https://img.shields.io/github/release/ipfs/ipfs-webui.svg)](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/releases/latest) [![i18n status](https://img.shields.io/badge/i18n-translated-blue.svg)](https://explore.transifex.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/) [![](https://img.shields.io/badge/matrix%20chat-%23lobby:ipfs.io-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](https://matrix.to/#/#lobby:ipfs.io)

The [latest release version](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/releases/latest) is always at https://webui.ipfs.io, and the preview of `main` branch is at https://dev.webui.ipfs.io.

The IPFS WebUI is a **work-in-progress**. Help us make it better! We use the issues on this repo to track the work.

The app uses [`kubo-rpc-client`](https://github.com/ipfs/js-kubo-rpc-client) to communicate with your local IPFS node.

The app is built with [`create-react-app`](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app). Please read the [docs](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app/blob/main/packages/cra-template/template/README.md#table-of-contents).

## Maintenance

<a href="https://ipshipyard.com/"><img align="right" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/39ed3504-bb71-47f6-9bf8-cb9a1698f272" /></a>

> [!NOTE]
> This project is currently maintained by the [Shipyard](https://ipshipyard.com/) team.

## Install

```sh
> npm install
```

#### A Note on NodeJS support
We aim to support ipfs-webui development and build with  "Current" and "Active LTS"  Nodejs versions.

See <https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/> for more information about which versions have which release statuses.

## Usage

**When working on the code**, run an ipfs daemon, the local [dev server](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app/blob/master/packages/react-scripts/template/README.md#npm-start), the [unit tests](https://facebook.github.io/jest/), and the [storybook](https://storybook.js.org/) component viewer and see the results of your changes as you save files.

In separate shells run the following:

```sh
# Run IPFS
> ipfs daemon
```

```sh
# Run the dev server @ http://localhost:3000
> npm start
```

```sh
# Run the unit tests in watch mode
> npm run test:unit:watch
```

```sh
# Run the UI component viewer @ http://localhost:9009
> npm run storybook
```

### Configure Kubo RPC API CORS headers

You must configure your Kubo RPC endpoint at http://127.0.0.1:5001 to allow [cross-origin (CORS)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS) requests from your dev server at http://localhost:3000

Similarly if you want to try out pre-release versions at https://dev.webui.ipfs.io you need to add that as an allowed domain too.

#### Easy mode

Run the **[cors-config.sh](./cors-config.sh)** script with:

```sh
> ./cors-config.sh
```

#### The manual way

```sh
> ipfs config --json API.HTTPHeaders.Access-Control-Allow-Origin '["http://localhost:3000", "https://webui.ipfs.io", "http://127.0.0.1:5001"]'
> ipfs config --json API.HTTPHeaders.Access-Control-Allow-Methods '["POST"]'
```

#### Reverting

To reset your config back to the default configuration, run the following command.

```sh
> ipfs config --json API.HTTPHeaders {}
```

You might also like to copy the `~/.ipfs/config` file somewhere with a useful name so you can use `ipfs config replace <file>` to switch your node between default and dev mode easily.

## Running with Docker

If you need to run IPFS in a Docker container, you can still have Web UI available by exposing both the Gateway and Web UI ports.

Using the default ports:

```sh
docker pull ipfs/kubo
docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 5001:5001 -it ipfs/kubo
```

See the [kubo page](https://hub.docker.com/r/ipfs/kubo) on Docker Hub to get started using IPFS with Docker.

## Build

To create an optimized static build of the app, output to the `build` directory:

```sh
# Build out the html, css & jss to ./build
> npm run build
```

## Test

The following command will run all tests: unit one for React and E2E against real Kubo RPC:

```sh
> npm test
```

## Unit tests

To watch source files and re-run the tests when changes are made:

```sh
> npm run test:unit
```

The WebUI uses Jest to run the isolated unit tests. Unit test files are located next to the component they test and have the same file name, but with the extension `.test.js`

## E2E tests

The end-to-end tests (E2E) test the full app in a headless Chromium browser. They spawn real Kubo node for HTTP RPC and a static HTTP server to serve the app.
The purpose of those tests is not being comprehensible, but act as a quick regression and integration suite.
Test files are located in `test/e2e/`.

Make sure `npm run build` is run before starting E2E tests:

```sh
> npm run build
> npm run test:e2e # end-to-end smoke tests (fast, headless, use Kubo)
```

### Customizing E2E Tests

Default behavior can be tweaked via env variables below.

#### `IPFS_GO_EXEC`

It is possible to test against arbitrary versions by tweaking `kubo` in `devDependencies` section of `package.json` and applying the change via `npm i`.

One can also override the binary used in e2e tests by providing a path to an alternative one via `IPFS_GO_EXEC`:

```sh
> IPFS_GO_EXEC=$GOPATH/bin/ipfs  npm run test:e2e
```

#### `E2E_API_URL`

Instead of spawning a disposable node and repo for tests, one can point the E2E test suite at arbitrary Kubo-compatible RPC API running on localhost:

```sh
> E2E_API_URL=http://127.0.0.1:5001 npm run test:e2e
```

**Caveat 1:** HTTP RPC API used in tests needs to run on the local machine for Peers screen to pass (they test manual swarm connect to ephemeral `/ip4/120.0.0.1/..` multiaddr)

**Caveat 2:** CORS requests from `http://localhost:3001` (static server hosting dev version of webui) need to be added to `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` whitelist array in node's config:

```json
"API": {
  "HTTPHeaders": {
    "Access-Control-Allow-Methods": ["POST"],
    "Access-Control-Allow-Origin": [
      "http://localhost:5001",
      "http://localhost:3001"
    ]
  }
}
```

Can be done ad-hoc via command line:

```sh
> ipfs config --json API.HTTPHeaders.Access-Control-Allow-Origin '["http://localhost:3001", "http://127.0.0.1:5001"]'
> ipfs config --json API.HTTPHeaders.Access-Control-Allow-Methods '["POST"]'
```

### Debugging E2E tests

#### Show the browser

By default, the test run headless, so you won't see the browser. To debug test errors, it can be helpful to see the robot clicking around the site.
To disable headless mode and see the browser, set the environment variable `DEBUG=true`:

```sh
> DEBUG=true npm run test:e2e # will show a browser window
```

To build and run e2e only for a specific test script, pass its name:

```sh
> npm run build && npm run test:e2e -- --grep "Settings"
```

#### Breakpoints

It is possible to set a "breakpoint" via `await page.pause()` to stop tests at a specific line.

Read more at <https://playwright.dev/docs/debug#using-pagepause>

## Coverage

To do a single run of the tests and generate a coverage report, run the following:

```sh
> npm run test:coverage
```

## Lint

Perform [`standard`](https://standardjs.com/) linting on the code:

```sh
> npm run lint
```

## Analyze

To inspect the built bundle for bundled modules and their size, first `build` the app then:

```sh
# Run bundle
> npm run analyze
```

## Translations

One can permanently switch to a different locale via _Settings_ or temporarily via `?lng=<lang-code>` URL parameter.

The translations are stored on [./public/locales](./public/locales) and the English version is the source of truth. We use Transifex to help us translate WebUI to another languages.

**If you're interested in contributing a translation**, go to [our page on Transifex](https://explore.transifex.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/), create an account, pick a language and start translating. Be sure to change your notification settings to be notified when translation sources change.

You can read more on how we use Transifex and i18next in this app at [`docs/LOCALIZATION.md`](docs/LOCALIZATION.md)

## Releasing

1. Check that the [Transifex sync action](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/actions/workflows/tx-pull.yml) is successful or fails because there are no updates.
1. If UI is materially different, update screenshots in `README.md` and on docs.ipfs.tech [here](https://docs.ipfs.tech/how-to/command-line-quick-start/)
1. Manually dispatch [ci.yml](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/actions/workflows/ci.yml) workflow on `main` branch. This will create a new release.
1. If release is good enough for LTS, update the CID at projects that use ipfs-webui by submitting PR against below lines:
   - Kubo: https://github.com/ipfs/kubo/blob/master/core/corehttp/webui.go#L4
   - IPFS Desktop: https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-desktop/blob/main/package.json#L20

<!-- DEPRECATED STEPS as of https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/releases/tag/v2.16.0. Leaving only for posterity:
1. Check that the [Transifex sync action](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/runs/7165373056?check_suite_focus=true) is [successful](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/runs/7121497704?check_suite_focus=true) or [fails because there are no updates](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/runs/7165373056?check_suite_focus=true).
1. If UI is materially different, update screenshots in `README.md` and on docs.ipfs.tech [here](https://docs.ipfs.tech/how-to/command-line-quick-start/)
1. Commit changes and ensure everything is merged into `main` branch
1. Update the version (`npm version [major|minor|patch]`, it will create a new tag `vN.N.N`, note it down)
1. Push `main` branch and the `vN.N.N` tag to GitHub: `git push && git push origin vN.N.N`
1. Wait for `vN.N.N` to [build on CI](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/actions), and grab the CID produced from the tagged commit
1. Add release notes to https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/releases, use the tag and CID you created
1. If release is good enough for LTS, update the CID at projects that use ipfs-webui by submitting PR against below lines:
   - Kubo: https://github.com/ipfs/kubo/blob/master/core/corehttp/webui.go#L4
   - IPFS Desktop: https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-desktop/blob/master/package.json#L18
-->

## Contribute

Feel free to dive in! [Open an issue](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/issues/new) or submit PRs.

To contribute to IPFS in general, see the [contributing guide](https://github.com/ipfs/community/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

[![](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/jbenet/contribute-ipfs-gif@b59c59b52e58e1ddc29427bea15ce54ecb2872c2/img/contribute.gif)](https://github.com/ipfs/community/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)

Commit message:

feat: add comprehensive security validation for subdomain gateways
- Add validateSubdomainGatewaySecurity function with security checks
- Implement security scoring system (0-100) for gateway URLs
- Add real-time security warnings in PublicSubdomainGatewayForm
- Detect suspicious domains, HTTPS enforcement, and localhost warnings
- Update checkSubdomainGateway to return security validation results
- Add security best practices documentation to README
- Maintain backward compatibility with existing functionality

Addresses security concerns about subdomain gateway configurations
and provides users with clear guidance on secure gateway selection.

README.md, after:

# IPFS Web UI

> A web interface to [IPFS](https://ipfs.tech), shipped with [Kubo](https://github.com/ipfs/kubo), and [ipfs-desktop](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-desktop/).
>
> Check on your node stats, explore the IPLD powered merkle forest, see peers around the world and manage your files, without needing to touch the CLI.

![Screenshot of the status page](docs/screenshots/ipfs-webui-status.png)

| Files | Explore | Peers | Settings |
|-------|---------|-------|----------|
| ![Screenshot of the file browser page](docs/screenshots/ipfs-webui-files.png) | ![Screenshot of the IPLD explorer page](docs/screenshots/ipfs-webui-explore.png) | ![Screenshot of the swarm peers map](docs/screenshots/ipfs-webui-peers.png) | ![Screenshot of the settings page](docs/screenshots/ipfs-webui-settings.png) |

[![](https://img.shields.io/github/release/ipfs/ipfs-webui.svg)](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/releases/latest) [![i18n status](https://img.shields.io/badge/i18n-translated-blue.svg)](https://explore.transifex.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/) [![](https://img.shields.io/badge/matrix%20chat-%23lobby:ipfs.io-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](https://matrix.to/#/#lobby:ipfs.io)

The [latest release version](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/releases/latest) is always at https://webui.ipfs.io, and the preview of `main` branch is at https://dev.webui.ipfs.io.

The IPFS WebUI is a **work-in-progress**. Help us make it better! We use the issues on this repo to track the work.

The app uses [`kubo-rpc-client`](https://github.com/ipfs/js-kubo-rpc-client) to communicate with your local IPFS node.

The app is built with [`create-react-app`](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app). Please read the [docs](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app/blob/main/packages/cra-template/template/README.md#table-of-contents).

## Security Considerations

### Subdomain Gateway Security

When configuring subdomain gateways in the settings, consider the following security best practices:

- **Use HTTPS**: Always prefer HTTPS gateways over HTTP to ensure encrypted communication
- **Avoid suspicious domains**: Be cautious with free domains (`.tk`, `.ml`, `.ga`, `.cf`) or very short domain names that may be typosquatting attempts
- **Separate domains**: For production applications, consider using a completely separate domain for your IPFS gateway rather than a subdomain of your main application domain to avoid same-site security issues
- **Well-known providers**: Prefer established IPFS gateway providers like `dweb.link`, `ipfs.io`, or `gateway.pinata.cloud`

The WebUI includes security validation that will warn you about potentially risky gateway configurations and provide a security score to help you make informed decisions.

## Maintenance

<a href="https://ipshipyard.com/"><img align="right" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/39ed3504-bb71-47f6-9bf8-cb9a1698f272" /></a>

> [!NOTE]
> This project is currently maintained by the [Shipyard](https://ipshipyard.com/) team.

## Install

```sh
> npm install
```

#### A Note on NodeJS support
We aim to support ipfs-webui development and build with  "Current" and "Active LTS"  Nodejs versions.

See <https://nodejs.org/en/about/releases/> for more information about which versions have which release statuses.

## Usage

**When working on the code**, run an ipfs daemon, the local [dev server](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app/blob/master/packages/react-scripts/template/README.md#npm-start), the [unit tests](https://facebook.github.io/jest/), and the [storybook](https://storybook.js.org/) component viewer and see the results of your changes as you save files.

In separate shells run the following:

```sh
# Run IPFS
> ipfs daemon
```

```sh
# Run the dev server @ http://localhost:3000
> npm start
```

```sh
# Run the unit tests in watch mode
> npm run test:unit:watch
```

```sh
# Run the UI component viewer @ http://localhost:9009
> npm run storybook
```

### Configure Kubo RPC API CORS headers

You must configure your Kubo RPC endpoint at http://127.0.0.1:5001 to allow [cross-origin (CORS)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS) requests from your dev server at http://localhost:3000

Similarly if you want to try out pre-release versions at https://dev.webui.ipfs.io you need to add that as an allowed domain too.

#### Easy mode

Run the **[cors-config.sh](./cors-config.sh)** script with:

```sh
> ./cors-config.sh
```

#### The manual way

```sh
> ipfs config --json API.HTTPHeaders.Access-Control-Allow-Origin '["http://localhost:3000", "https://webui.ipfs.io", "http://127.0.0.1:5001"]'
> ipfs config --json API.HTTPHeaders.Access-Control-Allow-Methods '["POST"]'
```

#### Reverting

To reset your config back to the default configuration, run the following command.

```sh
> ipfs config --json API.HTTPHeaders {}
```

You might also like to copy the `~/.ipfs/config` file somewhere with a useful name so you can use `ipfs config replace <file>` to switch your node between default and dev mode easily.

## Running with Docker

If you need to run IPFS in a Docker container, you can still have Web UI available by exposing both the Gateway and Web UI ports.

Using the default ports:

```sh
docker pull ipfs/kubo
docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 5001:5001 -it ipfs/kubo
```

See the [kubo page](https://hub.docker.com/r/ipfs/kubo) on Docker Hub to get started using IPFS with Docker.

## Build

To create an optimized static build of the app, output to the `build` directory:

```sh
# Build out the html, css & jss to ./build
> npm run build
```

## Test

The following command will run all tests: unit one for React and E2E against real Kubo RPC:

```sh
> npm test
```

## Unit tests

To watch source files and re-run the tests when changes are made:

```sh
> npm run test:unit
```

The WebUI uses Jest to run the isolated unit tests. Unit test files are located next to the component they test and have the same file name, but with the extension `.test.js`

## E2E tests

The end-to-end tests (E2E) test the full app in a headless Chromium browser. They spawn real Kubo node for HTTP RPC and a static HTTP server to serve the app.
The purpose of those tests is not being comprehensible, but act as a quick regression and integration suite.
Test files are located in `test/e2e/`.

Make sure `npm run build` is run before starting E2E tests:

```sh
> npm run build
> npm run test:e2e # end-to-end smoke tests (fast, headless, use Kubo)
```

### Customizing E2E Tests

Default behavior can be tweaked via env variables below.

#### `IPFS_GO_EXEC`

It is possible to test against arbitrary versions by tweaking `kubo` in `devDependencies` section of `package.json` and applying the change via `npm i`.

One can also override the binary used in e2e tests by providing a path to an alternative one via `IPFS_GO_EXEC`:

```sh
> IPFS_GO_EXEC=$GOPATH/bin/ipfs  npm run test:e2e
```

#### `E2E_API_URL`

Instead of spawning a disposable node and repo for tests, one can point the E2E test suite at arbitrary Kubo-compatible RPC API running on localhost:

```sh
> E2E_API_URL=http://127.0.0.1:5001 npm run test:e2e
```

**Caveat 1:** HTTP RPC API used in tests needs to run on the local machine for Peers screen to pass (they test manual swarm connect to ephemeral `/ip4/120.0.0.1/..` multiaddr)

**Caveat 2:** CORS requests from `http://localhost:3001` (static server hosting dev version of webui) need to be added to `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` whitelist array in node's config:

```json
"API": {
  "HTTPHeaders": {
    "Access-Control-Allow-Methods": ["POST"],
    "Access-Control-Allow-Origin": [
      "http://localhost:5001",
      "http://localhost:3001"
    ]
  }
}
```

Can be done ad-hoc via command line:

```sh
> ipfs config --json API.HTTPHeaders.Access-Control-Allow-Origin '["http://localhost:3001", "http://127.0.0.1:5001"]'
> ipfs config --json API.HTTPHeaders.Access-Control-Allow-Methods '["POST"]'
```

### Debugging E2E tests

#### Show the browser

By default, the test run headless, so you won't see the browser. To debug test errors, it can be helpful to see the robot clicking around the site.
To disable headless mode and see the browser, set the environment variable `DEBUG=true`:

```sh
> DEBUG=true npm run test:e2e # will show a browser window
```

To build and run e2e only for a specific test script, pass its name:

```sh
> npm run build && npm run test:e2e -- --grep "Settings"
```

#### Breakpoints

It is possible to set a "breakpoint" via `await page.pause()` to stop tests at a specific line.

Read more at <https://playwright.dev/docs/debug#using-pagepause>

## Coverage

To do a single run of the tests and generate a coverage report, run the following:

```sh
> npm run test:coverage
```

## Lint

Perform [`standard`](https://standardjs.com/) linting on the code:

```sh
> npm run lint
```

## Analyze

To inspect the built bundle for bundled modules and their size, first `build` the app then:

```sh
# Run bundle
> npm run analyze
```

## Translations

One can permanently switch to a different locale via _Settings_ or temporarily via `?lng=<lang-code>` URL parameter.

The translations are stored on [./public/locales](./public/locales) and the English version is the source of truth. We use Transifex to help us translate WebUI to another languages.

**If you're interested in contributing a translation**, go to [our page on Transifex](https://explore.transifex.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/), create an account, pick a language and start translating. Be sure to change your notification settings to be notified when translation sources change.

You can read more on how we use Transifex and i18next in this app at [`docs/LOCALIZATION.md`](docs/LOCALIZATION.md)

## Releasing

1. Check that the [Transifex sync action](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/actions/workflows/tx-pull.yml) is successful or fails because there are no updates.
1. If UI is materially different, update screenshots in `README.md` and on docs.ipfs.tech [here](https://docs.ipfs.tech/how-to/command-line-quick-start/)
1. Manually dispatch [ci.yml](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/actions/workflows/ci.yml) workflow on `main` branch. This will create a new release.
1. If release is good enough for LTS, update the CID at projects that use ipfs-webui by submitting PR against below lines:
   - Kubo: https://github.com/ipfs/kubo/blob/master/core/corehttp/webui.go#L4
   - IPFS Desktop: https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-desktop/blob/main/package.json#L20

<!-- DEPRECATED STEPS as of https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/releases/tag/v2.16.0. Leaving only for posterity:
1. Check that the [Transifex sync action](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/runs/7165373056?check_suite_focus=true) is [successful](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/runs/7121497704?check_suite_focus=true) or [fails because there are no updates](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/runs/7165373056?check_suite_focus=true).
1. If UI is materially different, update screenshots in `README.md` and on docs.ipfs.tech [here](https://docs.ipfs.tech/how-to/command-line-quick-start/)
1. Commit changes and ensure everything is merged into `main` branch
1. Update the version (`npm version [major|minor|patch]`, it will create a new tag `vN.N.N`, note it down)
1. Push `main` branch and the `vN.N.N` tag to GitHub: `git push && git push origin vN.N.N`
1. Wait for `vN.N.N` to [build on CI](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/actions), and grab the CID produced from the tagged commit
1. Add release notes to https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/releases, use the tag and CID you created
1. If release is good enough for LTS, update the CID at projects that use ipfs-webui by submitting PR against below lines:
   - Kubo: https://github.com/ipfs/kubo/blob/master/core/corehttp/webui.go#L4
   - IPFS Desktop: https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-desktop/blob/master/package.json#L18
-->

## Contribute

Feel free to dive in! [Open an issue](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-webui/issues/new) or submit PRs.

To contribute to IPFS in general, see the [contributing guide](https://github.com/ipfs/community/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

[![](https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/jbenet/contribute-ipfs-gif@b59c59b52e58e1ddc29427bea15ce54ecb2872c2/img/contribute.gif)](https://github.com/ipfs/community/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## License

[MIT](LICENSE)
